# HEV3_Helicase_Model
In silico study on the Hepatitis E Virus RNA Helicase and its inhibition by silvestrol, rocaglamide and other flavagline compounds

The HEV RNA Helicase domain of the HEV ORF1 poly-protein was meant to be modelled via homology modelling (HM), as reported in the 4.1 section, due to the absence of a crystallographic structure in the Protein Data Bank. This method, the relevance of which has been already proved, allows the successful modelling of proteins whose 3D structure is missing and it is particularly useful when crystallographic investigations are challenging, as in the case of poly-proteins.   

Specifically, the HEV ORF1 domain’s coding sequence of HEV RNA Helicase was chosen based on the results reported by Karpe and Lole who succeeded to recombinantly express the putative HEV1 ORF1 RNA Helicase region (from amino acid 960 to 1204) proving its activity. The focus on HEV3 (UniProt AC Q6J8G2) was due to its prevalent foodborne/zoonotic transmission and its worldwide spread. The localization of the RNA Helicase domain on the HEV3 ORF1 was achieved based on the alignment with the HEV1 RNA Helicase sequence proved as active by Karpe and Lole. Particularly, the HEV3 ORF1 region ranging from amino acid 975 to 1219 shared 90.6% identity and 95.5% similarity with the HEV1 RNA Helicase domain, becoming our target sequence (Tar-Seq).   

Concerning the template selection for HM, it is typically obtained identifying homologous sequences with available 3D structure via the BLAST UniProt web-interface, a gold benchmark standard in this kind of studies. However, using the Tar-Seq as input for a canonical BLAST search gave no results. This was likely due to the nature of the BLAST heuristic algorithm that could not retrieve a best local alignment between a given poly-protein domain and the whole sequence of poly-proteins, which was rather required for the sake of the project. Indeed, the BLAST UniProt web-interface searches target sequences within the whole primary protein sequences associated with 3D data and not limiting the search to the actual sequence resolved in the crystal structure. However, in most of the medium/large proteins, such as poly-proteins, the crystals related to the UniProt ACs partially cover the protein primary structure causing BLAST to fail in identifying homologs with known structures. To overcome the intrinsic weakness of a canonical BLAST-based approach in this kind of study, a successful workflow was setup. The change in the search space used in this approach made it robust, reusable, and successful in finding a template to build a model for a poly-protein domain. Downloading all the PDBs having a 3D structure belonging to the Prokaryotic reign with E.C 3.6.4.13 (RNA Helicase activity, according to Brenda classification) and converting them to FASTA files via an in-house script allowed to build a database made of the “crystallome” of the prokaryotic RNA Helicase. Afterward, searching it to find the template led to obtain various significant hits.   

The best aligning protein was chosen as template (PDB ID 3WRY). Such protein belongs to the Tomato mosaic virus (Tmv), a positive sense single stranded RNA virus belonging to the same HEV class. Before using it as template to model the HEV RNA Helicase domain, the last 160 N-terminal residues, which were organized in a self-standing sub-domain, were removed being not covered by our Tar-Seq. The model and its refinement process allowed to obtain a reliable and stable model. Indeed, at the end of the topological refinement steps, 90% of the residues were within the mostly favoured regions, 10% in allowed regions and there were no residues in generously or disallowed regions according to the Ramachandran plot. Furthermore, the model was also checked on the ProSA-web Server obtaining a Z-score of 6.14 which is within the range of scores typically found for native proteins of comparable size further confirming the model reliability. The last check was the comparison of the model with the one produced by the blind web resource trRosetta: their structural alignment resulted in an RMSD lower than 2.6 Å, confirming the reliability of the entire procedure described above.   

The RNA was added to the modelled protein to complete the HEV RNA Helicase-RNA model. The protein from which the RNA was obtained is stored in the PDB with 6JIM code. It derives from the Chikungunya virus, a species belonging to the Alsuviricetes class, as well as HEV and Tmv. The Tar-Seq and the RNA-donor structure 6JIM were structurally comparable (RMSD ~2.5 Å), also at the level of the RNA-binding pocket. Then, the 6JIM RNA chain was extracted and docked to our model via ClusPro 2.0 37 obtaining a hydrophobic-favoured complex with a 6JIM-like arrangement.   

Finally, the poly-uracil RNA fragment was edited to a poly-purine one (5’-GAGAGAG-3') as previous studies reported the suitability of SLV-related compounds to interact with a poly-purine RNA sequence.   
